About the application

The app is written in Python3 and uses the Flask web framework to create a simple web server that provides the API consumed by client applications.
I decided on using Python3 with the Flask web framework as it was the simplest to implement due to time constraints and is a great alternative to Node.js.
And my current job requires me to use Python as one of the programming language we use, so it's good practice :)

The main program runs in "app.py". The structure of the program is divided below:
    1) A "Model" section. 
        This is where the database models would go. However, it is not needed for this app (for now).
    2) A "Service" section. 
        This is where the API logic resides.
        A "TemperatureConverterAPI" class is used as an api resource and inherits the "Resource" class from the "flask_restful" module so that the class can implement RESTful methods like get(), post(), put(), etc.
        We can add new resources in the "Service" section for other APIs in the future.
        The "Service" section would also call CRUD operations from the objects in the "Model" section (if applicable). But if I were to design CRUD operations using the database (or any other datasource), I would have a business module interacting with the the database models directly, then have the "Service" methods call on the business methods.
        The "TemperatureConverterAPI" class uses business methods coming from "utilities.py" module. The "utilities.py" module houses the business logic for calculating the temperature conversions. I did it this way in the event that the web framework might change in the future. This is also helpful if the database is replaced in the future to minimize code change.
    3) A "Controller" section.
        This is where the api endpoints and page routes are set.
        There is a single html page template that gets called if the root site is visited. The templates are located on the "templates" folder.
        All other page status like 404 errors will be automatically generated by Flask but any of the pages can be routed to a custom page template.
        All in all, this is similar to a Model View Control (MVC) setup for separation of concerns.

The app using a single GET request endpoint that will take a numeric value up to one decimal place (ex. 100 or 97.8).
If more than 1 decimal place is given, it will be ignored. (ex. 100.45, the "5" will be ignored).
From the GET request argument, the web server will calculate both celsius-to-fahranheit and fahranheit-to-celsius and return a JSON object.
It was done this way so that a single request can have both calculations and also add additional calculations in the future (i.e. celsius to kelvin).
This will also reduce the number of server trips and allow the client application to output any combination from the payload.


#Setup and running python on your local machine/VM using the terminal/commandline

1) Install Python (project was made with python3 on mac)
    Open terminal and check what version of python you have:
    Depending on what version of python you have on mac, you might need to use "python3"
    
    python --version
    python3 --version

    Download and install the correct version here. For simplicity, you can just select the option to add to PATH.
    https://www.python.org/downloads/

2) Install pip
    pip should already be installed with python3 but you can check using either of these commands below. Note: You might have to use "pip3" for Mac

    pip -V
    pip3 -V       

3) Check if virtualenv is available in python. virtualenv is a virtual environment that can run different versions of your python project with different dependencies and configurations from your local installs. For example, you can have a test environment and production environment having different libraries or versions of a library.

    virtualenv --version

    If necessary, install virtualenv using pip (or pip3 if python3 is installed on Mac/Linux)
    pip install virtualenv
    pip3 install virtualenv

4) From the terminal, navigate to the root directory of the python project and create a virtual environment for that project.

    Use one of the commands below. This will create a virtual environment directory named "venv". I've decided not to add a dot in the front of the name (".venv") since adding a dot will hide the file.

    python -m venv venv    
    python3 -m venv venv

5) While still in the root directory of the project, activate the virtual environment. Note that we previously named a new virtual environment "venv".

    On Windows
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat

    On Mac/Linux
    source venv/bin/activate

    After activating the virtual environment, your path will change like the below example. In this example, the project is located on the desktop. Note the "(venv)" at the beginning of the path.

    On Windows
    (venv) C:\Users\YourUserName\Desktop\TemperatuereConverterAPI

    On Mac/Linux, it will look something like this:
    (venv) YourUserName

6) Now that you are in the virtual environment, install the dependencies from the "requirements.txt" file. These libraries will need to be installed for the app to work. Use one of the commands below.

    pip install -r requirements.txt
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt

7) Now run the python web server locally from within the virtual environment. It is currently set to localhost at default port 5000. The web server will show the url to go to from the terminal. It should looks something like http://127.0.0.1:5000/

    python app.py
    python3 app.py


#Testing the applications

1) Test api in browser. Api should return a JSON object.

    Sample:
    http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/tempconverter/100

2) Test app hosted online.
    The app is hosted on https://www.pythonanywhere.com/. There is a free tier to host a single app.
    Open another terminal and test the api using the below curl or just copy paste to any browser.
    The base url is http://mypyground.pythonanywhere.com/.
    
    Example below is a GET request to convert 100 degree.
    curl http://mypyground.pythonanywhere.com/api/tempconverter/100

3) Unit test using pytest. While web server is still running, run the below in another terminal. Modify or add to the test if you choose to.
    
    pytest test.py


#Shutting down web server and deactivate virtual environment

1) Shutdown python web server using the below keys while in the terminal

    CTRL + C

2) deactivate virtual environment by running the command below

    deactivate

Done!!!
